.TH NETMATES 1 "netmates v0.2" "2023-07"
.SH NAME
netmates \- a network discovery utility
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B netmates
[
.I options
]

.B netmates-gui

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B netmates
is a command line network discovery utility
.PP
.B netmates-gui
is a simpler gtk-based application using the same scanning techniques, but limited in options that can be passed to it.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Scan flags
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-known-only
print known hosts only, no scan
.TP
.B \-K, \-\-known-first
print known hosts first then scan
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-scan-only
print scan results only, no known hosts
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-scan-all
scan using all methods even if host is live
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-skip-resolve
skip resolving hosts and show numeric values
.SS Scan & Probe Options
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-scan-timeout <num>
scan timeout in milliseconds
.TP
.B \-T, \-\-connect-timeout <num>
connect scan timeout in milliseconds
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-connect-threads <num>
number of connect threads. Set to 0 to skip connecting
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-listen-threads
number of listen threads. Set to 0 to skip listening
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-max-hosts <num>
max number of host ipv4 to scan within the subnet
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-subnet-offset <num>
offset of the first host to scan in the ipv4 subnet
.SS Basic & Printing Options
.TP
.B \-L, \-\-list-format
print results as a vertical list
.TP
.B \-B, \-\-brief-format
print less details, only hostname and ip
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-debug
print debug messages
.TP
.B \-G, \-\-trace
print trace messages
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints the command line options.

.SH "ADDITIONAL INFORMATION"
.PP
Port signatures describe the method that discovered them.
This will usually show as 80/tc, 53/uq
.PP
.TP
.B tc: TCP Connect
nothing sent or received, but the host accepted the connection
.TP
.B tq: TCP Query
This is for HTTP where valid query was sent and a response was received
.TP
.B tl: TCP Listen
Nothing sent, but listening
.TP
.B uq: UDP Query
Sending and receiving datagrams on UDP. Known protocols like DNS, MDNS, SSDP
.TP
.B ul: UDP Listen
Bind to port and listen for broadcasts.

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
2025, Ahmad Khalifa - Licensed under the GPLv3


